foreign
er uh we have a treat on several levels
today one of our good friends Sam blonde
most recently Sierra of brex has joined
Founders fund as their latest partner
Sam thanks for joining us thank you for
having me once again I'm so happy to be
here so Sam if you've been part of
saster for a long time Sam has been part
of our DNA since the beginning he was at
our first saster annual when he was head
of sales at zenefits we've gone on
personally to work together in many ways
and he just finished up the better part
of four years I think it breaks quite
recently we'll chat a little bit about
now he's on the other side investing and
picked a very interesting time a very
interesting time to begin as the latest
partner at Founders fund so we're going
to talk about that but mostly we're
going to use this discussion is a
kickoff Sam is going to kick off a
partnership a new series of podcasts and
videos for us called well at least for
today we're calling it cro confidential
Sam can change it to whatever he wants
but he's got five or six pop cros and
sales leaders already lined up to do
deep Dives on in general
and so I'm excited he'll run with that
so listen to the hundred thousand folks
who listen to this we've got a great new
voice that has been one of the top sales
leaders I've ever worked with for you
know a decade and a half and he'll be
talking to some of the best of the best
and I think last year this would have
already been interesting but I think
this series in today's world where SAS
is still growing like a weed but there's
a lot less Capital which we're going to
talk about next and the Playbook is
different this this series is going to
be especially interesting than when last
year was all about how can I deploy 100
million dollars in six months
to grow sales so Sam why don't we
transition to that I wanna I wanna I
wanna talk a lot about what you're
seeing as an investor before I get there
let's talk about one of the most
interesting topics which is sales for
the rest of this year and next year it's
it's so different isn't it but the in
terms of uh it seemed like last year if
you were at a hot company like brex did
efficiency even matter
yeah first thanks for having me awesome
to be here and great to see you Jason uh
and to your question I think um you you
did economics broadly matter much more
today yeah you know um 2021 there was a
lot of emphasis on sort of like top line
revenue growth um what percentage year
over year was the business growing in
less emphasis on things like uh gross
margins and and sort of quality of
Revenue into one
um really tactical change and
potentially recommendation depending on
the business that brex did
um and um I'm talking to other Founders
about doing is rather than
um making top line revenue historically
just your ARR number yes the primary
focus of the company it's actually
something like gross profit
um and and if you have less than 70
gross margins uh and you're in a lower
gross margin business it really adds
emphasis on improving those gross
margins which today uh is highly valued
as an investor and I think a major input
to what the business is valued at where
historically it hadn't been so much
um some other some other thoughts uh
well let's break let's dig into that for
a second because that that's you just
distilled something into one metric or
Criterion that I think is so important
I've been talking about it for years and
I think it got lost in the boom times of
last year first of all
we have there's a general playbook for
software companies right that we've all
been doing for years and I think that 70
is the right line if your gross margins
are above 70 the traditional Playbook it
has to change but it mostly works right
because basically the software Playbook
since Dawn Eternal is basically kind of
assumed 100 gross margins what I mean is
in theory back in the old days of a
CD-ROM you chip to CD-ROM and you keep
all the money there were no direct costs
but like literally the old adobe's and
Microsoft said 90 margins a little worse
than SAS right with server costs and
support but we we learned these metrics
the the CLTV and cacs and that and then
the world changed and in fintech and
payments and um and Communications like
Trulia these all have lower margins
right but we ran the same Playbook until
recently didn't we did we ever think
about different playbooks just if
margins were 30 or 20 or 50 they were
kind of the same right that's right and
interestingly
um valuations it seemed didn't vary
greatly uh historically and so you know
you're or a 30 margin business but your
top Line's at 100 million in ARR uh and
you you sort of compare that to a sixty
percent gross margin business at 100
million in ARR in 2021 I don't know that
you've got the the
um benefit in terms of the valuation you
didn't higher gross margins today it
matters more yeah and so it's it's I
almost think we we all learned unless we
go back to that world of growth I don't
think we'll ever go back completely to
seeing a 30 business the same as an 80
but we've learned almost some bad
lessons the last two years haven't we
from this like especially folks that are
newer to saser Cloud they've learned so
maybe some very bad best practices for
for sales and marketing right yeah over
optimizing for the Top Line number yeah
and and the interesting thing uh for
businesses uh like brex and many others
there actually is an ability to control
uh that gross margin number
um so the the expense side and so uh
let's like how does this sort of
manifest
um it wrecks we changed the quotas from
sort of like a revenue-based quota to a
um like gross margin dollars based quota
yeah so it was the card spend less the
rebate or the merchant interchange less
the rebate and it really changed
behavior in sales reps and I think
broadly within the company if you are
hyper focused on
um again like some form of gross profit
or gross margin dollars Top Line
um it can manifest and drive Behavior
within the company such that you improve
gross margins and ultimately uh improve
the value of the business yep and let's
come back to this and then because this
alone is so helpful right when I've
tried these experiments in the past
getting sales folks to focus anything
than other the the gross bookings right
I've found it's too complicated for
sales no criticism but like trying to
get them to understand what's profitable
what's less profitable which products
matter I found it's not worth it at the
end of the day and and how did you do
that did the did the did the sales folks
were they told what the net margin was
on products was it estimated right or
how would they know when they're when
that when it changed right when they
were judging the profitability of their
product rather than Revenue well the the
easiest uh lever and this is unique to
brex but I think it's potentially
applicable to many businesses out there
several that I talked to regularly
um where there's some equivalent to this
but um for for brex
um the rebate that we were providing
customers on their card spend
um directly influenced the gross margin
of that customer yes and so historically
if you were only incentivized on Top
Line you didn't care what the rebate you
were providing to the customer yeah and
like of course there were you know uh
thresholds and and constraints and those
sorts of things historically but when we
directly tied it
um the sales rep just knows like you
know lower rebate means more better
better margins for the business
um and what would they do in practice
when they're signing up a new customer
when they're signing up saster to be a
brex customer how would that change the
rep's behavior
yeah
um uh not like too much inside baseball
here but uh the the rep would maybe
historically do something like if you
can uh push forward with with uh you
know migrating all of your cards been by
the end of this week uh we can do
something like 150 basis point rebate uh
for you as a customer and I think in in
sort of the New World
um they knew the impact to their
commissions for doing something like
that and so the the uh conversation
changes I say and ultimately the rebate
changes okay and so like just one last
so this is so so now let's talk about
real broadly the lessons because you've
been in the high margin and the low
margin worlds and you've both you've
been very successful in both right
um the advice to Founders you're giving
let's say You're Building something
related to twilio right you're in
Communications you have 50 margins
you're in the middle would you increase
just increase the quotas for the Reps
that stresses them out what would you do
in something in between do you have any
recommendation if you're somewhere in
the middle
well um I don't know Julio's business
well enough to know if
um the sales reps can actually influence
this number
um but in many businesses they can I say
that's the key invite can you input can
you influence how they buy to align them
on a higher margin variant of your
product right
um that that is true and I think I I
think like um for for sales commissions
that's that's an easy that's an easy way
of driving Focus yeah that said
um what what brex did and what I'm I'm
recommending to Founders again depending
on the business let's just say
businesses that are less than 70 gross
margins yeah instead of at the All Hands
um and having the headline number be
we're at 10 million 100 million whatever
it is in ARR you actually use the number
that is whatever your um gross margin
percentages I see so we're at 30 30
let's say 100 million dollar ARR
business and you have 30 gross margins
we are at 30 million dollars of uh gross
margin uh uh I see gross profit use your
gross profit rather than the pure
Revenue right to simplify things so
you're honest right and it drives more
more Focus across the company to that
number and there are two letters you can
pull one is Top Line
um and one is some form of servicing
costs uh yeah whatever whatever you are
um spending money on that is driving
your gross margins down okay then one
last related question on this do you
when you're thinking through this now in
today's environment where capital is
harder to get right
um
the what does the effect mean let's say
you're in let's compare an 80 gross
margin to a 40 gross margin business to
keep it simple right do the Reps do the
Reps need to close twice as much
business to take as much revenue home
right do quotas have to go up
um explicitly or implicitly in these
lower margin businesses did you have you
thought about that because it if you
have traditional quotas that are Revenue
based they're not going to produce
enough margin to fund
these big OTS and the marketing costs so
do quotas have to go up or or if they do
do we do we disguise them in Gross
profits or someone has to pay for this
don't they
well well um in theory and in hopefully
in practice yes yes
um if you were driving lower gross
margin Revenue you need to drive more of
it to support being paid the same thing
to drive high the same amount of higher
gross margin Revenue yes
um and so uh you know fortunately for
for Rex in Rex's case the sales reps
were driving several million dollars of
top line revenue per rep yeah so the map
did kind of work itself out they weren't
closing 300K of Revenue per AE they were
making up for the margins by by having
higher effective quotas right nailed it
and I think if that if you have a
business where that is not true yes um
today that is a problem
um and historically you know 2021 maybe
that wasn't such a problem today
um if people are going to look for that
uh and and you are going to need to
figure out how to drive more Revenue per
sales rep you are a lower gross margin
business so okay so that's one last
question of this and then we'll move on
but I think the couple great takeaways
one if your margins are below 70 you
need a different sales comp plan and if
you have didn't do that last year when
times were good better do it now right
or keep thinking about it right the
second one is yes yes even in Good Times
if your margins are lower your quote has
got to be higher to make up for it right
and you and they were there I know some
startups I've observed didn't do that
right
um but but it's got to work right
um last question on the environment
today
um it's funny last month I for my own
Investments I haven't made that many
I've made 25 or 30. I kind of bucket
them into three groups I would say about
a third I got an email this was our best
month ever
okay about a third said things are
getting a little harder but it's good
and I got the thirds wrong not a third
twenty percent said things are terrible
it's the global recession we grew zero
percent okay
so what's really going on here and
um in general and if if sales is coming
under more scrutiny which I think is the
answer what the more people I've asked
the more what I hear from the best
companies out there is sales isn't that
much harder today right but there's more
scrutiny there's more questions about
whether we really need to make this
change and we and this so my question is
what do you think is happening in
general and do A's need to be smarter
next year than they need to be last year
in a higher scrutiny environment does a
type of a change a little bit
yeah so I'll tell you what um I'm seeing
through a number of conversations with
Founders and then uh maybe it's helpful
signaling for for
um the founders in the 20 category
um I am not seeing uh much influence on
uh uh company's ability to sell their
product to acquire new customers
um and I am not hearing you know one of
the biggest problems today in our
business is that uh uh potential
customers are cutting budget and they're
not able to buy I'm not hearing it yeah
I am hearing and seeing
um let's say 2021 there was so much
organic growth within a customer base if
you are dependent on things like you
know hiring if your customers are hiring
a bunch that means more new licenses of
your product companies are hiring less
today and so the net dollar retention
for uh within a customer base or a a
company that licenses software in their
revenue is sort of directly influenced
by the head count growth or something
like that of their customers that is
slowing and so you shouldn't use the
2021 growth expectation that you
experienced within your base into 2022
and so because of that I think Top Line
can slow this year and that's a
reasonable thing to point to our
customers are growing less fast than
they were in 2021 that's a good Insight
be thoughtful about your nrr assumptions
and understand where they're coming from
right if they're head count driven and
you're in some segments you may or it
may almost have to at least slow its
growth rate
some of Rex's customers stopped spending
so much on ads like you see that in the
public markets too right you do see it
on ads right yeah yeah you oddly don't
yet see it at the Confluence and the
snowflakes
um and others but you definitely see it
on the on the on the side that's tied to
Facebook and ads and others you see that
spend cut right or pot or slowed right
just slowed that's right and so I think
that's a reasonable
um excuse is the wrong word I think it's
a reality yeah that companies may see
their base growing less than it than it
did last year because of the macro
conditions I think back to the original
Point what I am not seeing is uh new new
customer acquisition
um slowing because you know budget cuts
or or um people not having spend cutting
costs these sorts of things and so if if
you are hearing that regularly from your
sales reps
um I think it could be in one of two
things
um the first thing is you may be in this
category of a product that is a nice to
have or at least perceived as nice to
have yeah you know let's use an extreme
example if you are luxury lunch catering
um for tech companies I don't want to be
selling that product right now like it's
hard I think to justify to your
investors a line item on your uh balance
sheet that's you know fifty thousand
dollars a month or whatever it is to to
cater in um steaks and seafood uh yeah
and so like um
for for sort of like a nice to have
product but that's not a business you
want to be in right now
um if if you are if you are hearing that
from sales people
um it is somewhat unique to your
business
um and so what I would start doing is
understand like dig a layer deeper yes
maybe maybe join some calls and I think
um today uh uh more than ever
understanding what business priorities
of the companies that you are selling
into are um and so not just your buyer
historically if you were selling into a
controller you would find out what is
important to you Mr controller and how
can we solve your problems I think an
extra question today is what are the
business objectives for 2022 and 2023
and if you hear
um we are hyper focused on um cutting
costs given the fundraising environment
you may then want to position your
product in line with that business
objective and not just what is important
to the controller who you're selling to
yes when that controller tries to go
receive permission or budget or whatever
it is to buy the product they can
position it in line with um this is
actually going to save us uh and here's
uh why
yeah that's a great maybe we can finish
on this section and transition to
investing that's it I asked you A's need
to be smarter than last year maybe I put
Smarter on quotes but I think you're
saying yes I think you're saying you've
got to go beyond and say what what would
help the controller find out what her or
his priorities are and be agile enough
to position your products benefits to
help them meet that goal so they can go
get that budget right the budget's there
but it's it's it's a little bit harder
to access so you sure better understand
what their what their what their true
goals are for next year and align with
it right you nailed it and said
differently
um the messaging that resonated in 2021
may not be the same messaging that
resonates in 2022 okay the exact same
product
um but you know like uh it's no longer
you know this product helps you in an
environment where you're hiring a ton of
employees because they might not be
hiring a ton of employees and so yeah
your building needs to adapt to the
conditions yeah and so let's wrap up on
recruiting right because I do think
it's such an interesting topic inventure
first of all most VCS think they can
help you with recruiting and they
provide zero value uh I literally think
of all of the companies I've invested I
may be the only investor that ever
introduced an actual VP including you to
Parker no one does everyone talks big or
they have like a recruiting arm of their
fund that does nothing
um so talk about recruiting in general
and where you think you could add value
well um first uh
all reference I think the biggest
mistake that I continue to see uh uh in
my conversations with Founders and it
comes with sales leadership hiring the
the first thing that
um
I hear from a lot of Founders is I want
someone with uh this specific domain
experience I want someone who has um uh
understands the health insurance space
um I want somebody who understands uh
industrial manufacturing I don't know
um and it's like gosh there are so few
incredible sales leaders incredible Tech
sales leaders to begin with and then to
try and limit that population down to
anyone that has very specific health
insurance or whatever type of experience
it is you're left with like
basically no one
um and the reality is I I think that
with few exceptions the domain
experience uh largely becomes irrelevant
over time uh and smart people learn
businesses uh and and so actually
solving for
um like a a track record of performance
into quality higher over someone with
this specific type of experience will
pay long-term dividends in a big way so
um generally the the advice that I
provide uh is uh threefold the first is
like the profile of the person that you
are hiring
um I generally gravitate towards
um someone who has seen what great looks
like and someone who has progressed
their career very quickly within a great
organization yeah and so you know we'll
we'll take Rex as an example umits as an
example actually xenovitz produced
um countless like like maybe 10 plus at
this point just incredible VPS of sales
svps of sales cro and they were in this
environment where the business was doing
great we were growing quickly and they
were at the top of of their game and so
they were promoted over all of their
peers
um and so that is like a a generic
profile that I gravitate towards versus
sort of like you know a perennial
um VP who's done this a bunch of times
in sort of average companies uh that is
a profile that I see periodically so the
first is the profile
um the second thing that comes to mind
is uh the priorities like what will this
person focus on and and what should you
be hiring for and number one and you
talk about this a lot Jason it's
recruiting it's recruiting the team and
I hear um so frequently uh literally
earlier today
um I want to hire somebody who can close
some of these upmarket customers for us
um as our sales leader and it's like why
not hire a sales rep that can close
these up Market customers for you
um and and so um the the priority is in
the things that you should be hiring for
you want somebody who um you have
confidence that they're going to build
and recruit an incredible team and you
want to know who are the people that are
coming with you from your prior roles
when you hire ABP of sales plus plus uh
you're also hiring their team or you
should be hiring their team if they're
good and then the last thing
um is around the interview process uh
where I sort of like Get questions and
provide some feedback one one exercise
that I think people find fairly helpful
is um we're coming up on the end of the
year uh it's it's relatively
um you can be relatively uh correct and
predict where you're going to finish
this year let's say you're going to come
in at 10 million dollars at ARR and you
kind of know where you want to go next
year so we're going to finish this year
at 10. next year we want to go to 25.
um part of the interview process should
be just as sort of like
um uh leaving it broad how do we get
there like what is a mediocre ones fail
that question don't they
well well what it'll tell you is if if
the first thing that they say and and
you want to like leave you want to leave
it open-ended you don't want to give
much Direction beyond that what is your
plan to get us from 10 to 25 and if the
first thing that they highlight whether
it's on a whiteboard or PowerPoint or
whatever the the format is if they say
I'm bringing in this um outside
um consulting firm who is incredible at
you know
um figuring out how to add value in a
sales cycle or something like that you
know like what their priorities are
um you know what's going to happen and
just make sure that that aligns with how
you you think you're going to get from
10 to 25 million next year
um so I like that at least as part of
the process
um a bit of like a problem-solving
experiment but also understanding if
you're going to partner well with this
person
good insights
um well good well listen I I want
there's like 15 other things I want to
talk about we'll have to do it on a
different one because we've run long
um
Founders out there
if you're looking to raise a seed a b
maybe even up to C
um
and you want a great xcro turn partner
on your board pick Sam reach out to him
at Founders fund send him the perf you
like Cole do you like cold emails or do
you like warm referrals which one do you
prefer you don't care well I mean look I
um similar to recruiting I am slightly
biased to do a warm referral I think you
know the the source of the introduction
does matter that said like totally
opened anything cool all right so find
Sam I would take money from them that's
my endorsement and then uh look forward
he's got four or five rates arrows
queued up for this cro confidential
series he may rename it but it's all
good
um and I think we'll really dig into
where revenue is next year because
whatever it is it's going to be
different than it was last year it's a
different it's a different world so Sam
thanks for catching up and thanks for
doing this series
um and thanks for everyone for being
with us
thank you for having me Jason awesome to
see you and thank you for uh everyone
that's listening talk to you all soon
[Music]